[PROBLEM-SOVLING]: Added (very) rough draft of problem solving links (#2993)
exercism/python: docs/PROBLEM-SOLVING.md

- Originally written in 1945 as guidance for tackling complicated math problems,[G. Polya's [How To Solve It][g-polya-how-to-solve-it] (full book) is still _excellent_ advice for problem-solving in general.
- Mentioned in the Free Code Camp Article, V. Anton Spraul's [Think Like a Programmer: An Introduction to Creative Problem Solving][v-anton-spraul-think-like-a-programmer] is a more modern and programming-focused take on the same general methods Polya outlines for mathematics.
- [Felienne Hermans][felienne-hermans] is more focused on _how_ people learn the art of coding and how that maps to learning in general.
  She has written [The Programmers Brian][programmers-brain-free-online], with strategies for reading code better, thinking about code clearly, writing better code, and becoming a better code collaborator.
  - You can order a physical copy of her book [here][programmers-brain-manning].
  - She also has two interesting videos on the same topic: [How to Teach Programming (and other things??)][felienne-hermans-how-to-teach-programming] and [Writing is Programming is Writing][felienne-hermans-programming-is-writing-is-programming].

> - [Algorithmic Thinking (Daniel Zingaro)][daniel-zingaro-algorithmic-thinking] from No Starch Press and [How to think like a programmer (Paul Vickers)][paul-vickers-how-to-think-like-a-programmer] also cover similar problem-solving territory when coding.

Author: ```suggestion
- 
- [Algorithmic Thinking (Daniel Zingaro)][daniel-zingaro-algorithmic-thinking] from No Starch Press and [How to think like a programmer (Paul Vickers)][paul-vickers-how-to-think-like-a-programmer] also cover problem-solving when coding.
- [Computational Thinking: A beginner's guide to problem-solving and programming (Karl Beecher)][beecher-computational-thinking],[Computational Thinking for the Modern Problem-Solver (Riley and Hunt)][riley-and-hunt-computational-thinking], and [From Computing to Computational Thinking (Paul S. Wang)][wang-computational-thinking]. Also offer strategies for thinking about problems and breaking them down for coding solutions.
```

Membership (paid) information is available at [acm(dot)org][association-for-computing-machinery].

[association-for-computing-machinery]: https://www.acm.org/membership/membership-benefits
[daniel-zingaro-algorithmic-thinking]: https://nostarch.com/algorithmic-thinking
[felienne-hermans-how-to-teach-programming]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g1ib43q3uXQ
[felienne-hermans-programming-is-writing-is-programming]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uO3a4HIBDU4
[felienne-hermans]: https://www.felienne.com/
[free-code-camp-think-like-a-programmer]: https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/how-to-think-like-a-programmer-lessons-in-problem-solving-d1d8bf1de7d2/
[g-polya-how-to-solve-it-summary]: https://math.berkeley.edu/~gmelvin/polya.pdf
[g-polya-how-to-solve-it]: https://press.princeton.edu/books/paperback/9780691164076/how-to-solve-it
[paul-vickers-how-to-think-like-a-programmer]: https://www.researchgate.net/publication/236270907_How_to_Think_like_a_Programmer_Problem_Solving_for_the_Bewildered
[programmers-brain-free-online]: https://www.manning.com/books/the-programmers-brain#toc
[programmers-brain-manning]: https://www.manning.com/books/the-programmers-brain

> [v-anton-spraul-think-like-a-programmer]: https://archive.org/details/think-like-a-programmer/page/n19/mode/2up

Author: ```suggestion
[v-anton-spraul-think-like-a-programmer]: https://archive.org/details/think-like-a-programmer/page/n19/mode/2up
[beecher-computational-thinking]: https://www.karlbeecher.com/project/ct
[riley-and-hunt-computational-thinking]: https://www.amazon.com/Computational-Thinking-Problem-Textbooks-Computing-ebook/dp/B00IZL9NQI
[wang-computational-thinking]: https://www.amazon.com/Computing-Computational-Thinking-Paul-Wang-dp-1482217651/dp/1482217651/ref=mt_other?_encoding=UTF8&me=&qid=
```

# Problem Solving Strategies

As the first article here states, `Problem solving is a meta-skill`.
We find that often, the syntax or structure of a programming language isn't the most difficult part of solving a challenge - figuring out _what to code_ or _where to start_ is.
Developing strategies and a system to break down problems into code-able steps is a **great** skill to cultivate.
Below are some community-sourced articles, videos, and books that can help you develop this super-skill.

- Free Code Camp offers a good overview article on [How to Think Like a Programmer - Lessons in Problem-Solving][free-code-camp-think-like-a-programmer].
- UC Berkeley has a nice PDF summary of [G. Polya's Problem Solving Techniques][g-polya-how-to-solve-it-summary].

> - Originally written in 1945 as guidance for tackling complicated math problems,[G. Polya's [How To Solve It][g-polya-how-to-solve-it] (full book) is still _excellent_ advice for problem-solving in general.

Author: ```suggestion
- Originally written in 1945 as guidance for tackling complicated math problems,[G. Polya's How To Solve It][g-polya-how-to-solve-it] (full book) is still _excellent_ advice for problem-solving in general.
```

- Mentioned in the Free Code Camp Article, V. Anton Spraul's [Think Like a Programmer: An Introduction to Creative Problem Solving][v-anton-spraul-think-like-a-programmer] is a more modern and programming-focused take on the same general methods Polya outlines for mathematics.
- [Felienne Hermans][felienne-hermans] is more focused on _how_ people learn the art of coding and how that maps to learning in general.
  She has written [The Programmers Brian][programmers-brain-free-online], with strategies for reading code better, thinking about code clearly, writing better code, and becoming a better code collaborator.
  - You can order a physical copy of her book [here][programmers-brain-manning].
  - She also has two interesting videos on the same topic: [How to Teach Programming (and other things??)][felienne-hermans-how-to-teach-programming] and [Writing is Programming is Writing][felienne-hermans-programming-is-writing-is-programming].

> - 

Author: ```suggestion
```

> - [Computational Thinking: A beginner's guide to problem-solving and programming (Karl Beecher)][beecher-computational-thinking],[Computational Thinking for the Modern Problem-Solver (Riley and Hunt)][riley-and-hunt-computational-thinking]. Also offer strategies for thinking about problems and breaking them down for coding solutions.

Author: ```suggestion
- [Computational Thinking: A beginner's guide to problem-solving and programming (Karl Beecher)][beecher-computational-thinking] and [Computational Thinking for the Modern Problem-Solver (Riley and Hunt)][riley-and-hunt-computational-thinking]. Also offer strategies for thinking about problems and breaking them down for coding solutions.
```

> - [Computational Thinking: A beginner's guide to problem-solving and programming (Karl Beecher)][beecher-computational-thinking],[Computational Thinking for the Modern Problem-Solver (Riley and Hunt)][riley-and-hunt-computational-thinking], and [From Computing to Computational Thinking (Paul S. Wang)][wang-computational-thinking]. Also offer strategies for thinking about problems and breaking them down for coding solutions.

Author: ```suggestion
- [Computational Thinking: A beginner's guide to problem-solving and programming (Karl Beecher)][beecher-computational-thinking],[Computational Thinking for the Modern Problem-Solver (Riley and Hunt)][riley-and-hunt-computational-thinking]. Also offer strategies for thinking about problems and breaking them down for coding solutions.
- [From Computing to Computational Thinking (Paul S. Wang)][wang-computational-thinking] is a bit more generalized and academic, but offers problem-solving strategies and structures that can apply to more than coding, and does not require prior programming knowledge.
```

- UC Berkeley has a nice PDF summary of [G. Polya's Problem Solving Techniques][g-polya-how-to-solve-it-summary].
- Originally written in 1945 as guidance for tackling complicated math problems,[G. Polya's How To Solve It][g-polya-how-to-solve-it] (full book) is still _excellent_ advice for problem-solving in general.
- Mentioned in the Free Code Camp Article, V. Anton Spraul's [Think Like a Programmer: An Introduction to Creative Problem Solving][v-anton-spraul-think-like-a-programmer] is a more modern and programming-focused take on the same general methods Polya outlines for mathematics.
- [Felienne Hermans][felienne-hermans] is more focused on _how_ people learn the art of coding and how that maps to learning in general.
  She has written [The Programmers Brian][programmers-brain-free-online], with strategies for reading code better, thinking about code clearly, writing better code, and becoming a better code collaborator.
  - You can order a physical copy of her book [here][programmers-brain-manning].

>   - She also has two interesting videos on the same topic: [How to Teach Programming (and other things??)][felienne-hermans-how-to-teach-programming] and [Writing is Programming is Writing][felienne-hermans-programming-is-writing-is-programming].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - She also has two interesting videos on the same topic: [How to Teach Programming (and other things??)][felienne-hermans-how-to-teach-programming] and [Programming is Writing is Programming ][felienne-hermans-programming-is-writing-is-programming].
```

Edited to account for the actual name given to the video on YouTube.

Author: 🤦🏽‍♀️   _I got it exactly backward!_  Thank you so much for both checking and catching that!!  💙

- [Algorithmic Thinking (Daniel Zingaro)][daniel-zingaro-algorithmic-thinking] from No Starch Press and [How to think like a programmer (Paul Vickers)][paul-vickers-how-to-think-like-a-programmer] also cover problem-solving when coding.
- [Computational Thinking: A beginner's guide to problem-solving and programming (Karl Beecher)][beecher-computational-thinking] and [Computational Thinking for the Modern Problem-Solver (Riley and Hunt)][riley-and-hunt-computational-thinking]. Also offer strategies for thinking about problems and breaking them down for coding solutions.
- [From Computing to Computational Thinking (Paul S. Wang)][wang-computational-thinking] is a bit more generalized and academic, but offers problem-solving strategies and structures that can apply to more than coding, and does not require prior programming knowledge.

> Many of the books above can also be read through the Association of Computing Machinery library.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some of the books above may also be read through the Association of Computing Machinery library.
```

Edited to account for O'Reilly leaving ACM learning resources at the end of June. Skillsoft, which remains with ACM, does have at least one of these books last I checked.

Author: So frustrating about O'Reilly.  My dream is that we talk them into some limited access as part of maybe an in-kind donation.  Like we select 100 (or some such) books that students can access for resources if they are exercism members.  Or something.  But for now... _sigh_.

Reviewer: Yeah, I wrote an email to them about that. They justified the higher fee because they've added a lot of content besides books. I suggested offering just books for a reduced fee, because I wasn't interested in the other content. They never responded.
